.TH GIT\-WT 1 "2026-02-25" "git-wt 1.0.0" "Git Manual"
.
.SH NAME
git\-wt \- Git worktree helper
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git wt
.I <command>
.RI [ args... ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B git\-wt
combines worktree creation, setup, and navigation into a single command.
It manages worktree directories with configurable naming, runs setup
commands after creation, and integrates with a shell wrapper for
automatic directory change.
.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BI add " <branch>" "\fR [" source ]\fR
Create a worktree for
.IR branch .
If
.I source
is given, the new branch starts there.
If the branch exists on
.B origin
but not locally, you will be prompted to use it.
.
.TP
.BI pr " <number>"
Create a worktree from a GitHub pull request or GitLab merge request by number.
The branch name is resolved automatically using
.B gh
(GitHub) or
.B glab
(GitLab), then fetched and passed to
.BR add .
.
.TP
.BI rm " \fR[" branch ]\fR
Remove a worktree.
Without arguments, removes the current worktree (auto\-detected from
the working directory).
.
.TP
.BI cd " <branch>"
Print the worktree path for
.IR branch .
Use the shell wrapper for actual directory change.
.
.TP
.B ls
List all worktrees
.RB ( "git worktree list" ).
.
.TP
.B init
Interactively create
.BR worktree.conf.local .
.
.TP
.B help
Show brief usage information.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help.
Note that
.B git wt \-\-help
opens this man page (standard Git behavior), while
.B git wt \-h
shows the built\-in usage summary.
.
.TP
.BR \-\-non\-interactive ", " \-\-yes
Suppress all interactive prompts and use default behavior.
.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Force overwrite or removal without confirmation.
Used with the
.B rm
command.
.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Per\-project config files are read from the main repository root:
.
.TP
.B worktree.conf
Committed project defaults.
.
.TP
.B worktree.conf.local
Personal overrides, intended to be gitignored.
.
.PP
The following variables can be set in config files:
.
.TP
.BI WORKTREE_DIR= path
Base directory for worktrees.
Default:
.BR ".." " (parent of the repo root)."
.
.TP
.BI WORKTREE_PREFIX= name
Directory name prefix.
Default: the repository directory name.
.
.TP
.BI WORKTREE_SETUP= "(cmd1 cmd2 ...)"
Array of shell commands to run inside the new worktree after creation.
.
.TP
.BI WORKTREE_TEARDOWN= "(cmd1 cmd2 ...)"
Array of shell commands to run inside the worktree before removal.
.
.SS Directory naming
Worktree directories are named
.IR <base>/<prefix>\-<sanitized\-branch> .
Branch names are sanitized by replacing
.B /
with
.B \-
and lowercasing.
.
.PP
Example:
.B ../myapp\-feature\-login
.
.SH INSTALLATION
Add the project directory to your
.BR PATH :
.
.RS 4
.nf
export PATH="$HOME/Projects/git\-wt:$PATH"
.fi
.RE
.
.PP
Source the shell wrapper for
.B cd
support:
.
.RS 4
.nf
source ~/Projects/git\-wt/git\-wt.sh
.fi
.RE
.
.PP
This defines the
.B wt
shell function that wraps
.B git wt
and adds automatic directory change for
.B add
and
.BR cd .
.
.PP
Alternatively, use a git alias (no cd support):
.
.RS 4
.nf
git config \-\-global alias.wt \(aq!git\-wt\(aq
.fi
.RE
.
.PP
To install the man page so that
.B git wt \-\-help
works:
.
.RS 4
.nf
make install\-man
.fi
.RE
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
git wt add feature/login master
git wt ls
git wt rm feature/login
git wt init

# With shell wrapper:
wt add feature/login master   # creates + cd\(aqs into worktree
wt cd feature/login           # cd into existing worktree
.fi
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git\-worktree (1)
